Methodologies are methods that are used by modern web development teams to develop and maintain web applications


1)    AGILE (customer/client is a key player in the development process)

      This is a TIME oriented methodology where a project is created over time. 
      This process includes 'sprints', which is a set amount of time (one to four weeks) 
      that is used to finish a task or a portion of a project.

      Before each sprint, the customer/client describes their needs for the website/app. 
      The development team then meets these needs in a 'sprint'.

      After each sprint, the development team then analysizes and makes assessments 
      where changes can be made. New ideas can be introduced ahead of the next sprint.

      This methodology is best suited for LONG and large projects, 
      or projects that don't have a clearly defined end goal.


2)    SCRUM  (customer/client has minimal involvement)

      This methodology gives most of the responsibility to the development team.
      The customer/client only states what they want from the website/web app 
      without specifying too much detail, and then the team goes to work.

      With this methodology, there is a 'Scrum Master' who serves as the overseer
      for the project, and there is a 'Product Owner' who is the representative from
      the client's side. The product owner is responsible for ensuring that the website/app
      is developed to their liking.

      Just like Agile, this methodology uses 'sprints' to complete a task. After each sprint, the team 
      gathers to perform revisions and discusses how to make the next sprint more efficient.

      This methodology gives more flexibility to web development teams to use their own methods 
      to deliver results. It's also useful for client's who dont want too much involvement 
      in the development process.


3)     WATERFALL
  
       The most traditional methodology that involves all the objectives, features and ideas being laid out
       in the very beginning of the project. The team then uses these objectives to develop the website/app 
       in a very linear fashion.

       It's extremely important to plan out the entire project before the team goes to work. Each team member
       must stick to the plan as closely as possible.

       This methodology works best for small projects that have minimal risk of change. It's not well suited for
       long, on-going projects. 


4)     KANBAN

       This methodology involves the visualization of tasks in a project. The team utilizes a 'kanban board' 
       to keep track of each task in the project from start to finish. The board is regularly updated by 
       the team, and it helps keep everyone in the team up to date and aware of the current progress 
       of the project overall

       The board displays the tasks that have been completed, and the tasks that have yet to be done.
       Task are completed continuously, and changes to the tasks can be made at any point during the process

       This methodology works best for projects that are likely to undergo quick changes as they proceed.















